FEB 12 (BEAUMONT, Texas) – A 25-year-old Port Arthur, Texas man has pleaded guilty to drug trafficking violations in the Eastern District of Texas, announced Drug Enforcement  Administration Acting Special Agent in Charge Steven S. Whipple and  U.S. Attorney John M. Bales today. Michael Joseph Barrett IV pleaded guilty to possession with intent to distribute methamphetamine on Feb. 11, 2014 before U.S. District Judge Marcia Crone. According to information presented in court, on Feb. 19, 2013, law enforcement officers responded to a residence on 32nd Street in Port Arthur after receiving information regarding suspected manufacture of methamphetamine at the location.  Consent to search was obtained and a search of the premises revealed a small amount of cocaine, a semi-automatic pistol, and various items associated with methamphetamine manufacture, including a three liter bottle containing a methamphetamine mixture.  A federal grand jury returned an indictment on Dec. 4, 2013, charging Barrett with drug trafficking violations.  Barrett faces up to 20 years in federal prison at sentencing.  A sentencing date has not been set. This case was investigated by the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Port Arthur Police Department and the Jefferson County Sheriff's Office Crime Lab and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Randall L. Fluke.|YES
FEB 05 (BROWNSVILLE, Texas ) - Stephen Whipple, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Houston Division and  United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson announced Jesus Mauricio Juarez Jr. aka Flaco 27, has been sentenced to federal prison for his involvement in a 1,000 pound marijuana load. He pleaded guilty in November 2013. Today, Senior U.S. District Judge Hilda G. Tagle sentenced Juarez to 31 months in federal prison. In handing down the sentence, Ruben Gonzalez-Cavazos aka Mume, also pleaded guilty in relation to the conspiracy and was sentenced to 47 months in federal prison and assessed a $15,000 fine on Feb. 3, 2014. Co-defendant Francisco Javier Maya, 35, went to trial last week in Brownsville and was convicted on all counts. He will be sentenced on May 13, 2014. Adolfo Lozano-Luna aka Chefero, 35, and Alberto Martinez aka El Diablo, 50, also pleaded guilty and will be sentenced at a later date. Evidence at Maya’s trial placed all five men in a conspiracy involving a 1,000 pound marijuana load, which was forcibly hijacked from them by unknown individuals on Dec. 11, 2012. One month later, Juarez was injured after an improvised explosive device (IED) detonated at his residence in Brownsville. In sentencing Juarez today, Judge Tagle discussed the bombing incident and noted that at least he and his family still have their lives. Evidence also linked Juarez, Gonzalez-Cavazos and Maya to other marijuana loads during the conspiracy. Maya’s role in the drug trafficking organization was to provide drivers for tractor trailers to drive marijuana loads to locations to include Houston and Taylor. Maya, Juarez and Gonzalez-Cavazos would share in the profits of each successful marijuana load. At the direction of Juarez, Maya provided bank account numbers associated with him and Gonzalez-Cavazos to Juarez in order to deposit drug profits. Juarez then made deposits stemming from narcotics proceeds from a successful marijuana load delivered to Taylor in November 2012. Evidence was presented at Maya’s trial that a $6,000 deposit was made into an account associated with Maya on Nov. 28, 2012, while another $6,500 was deposited into an account associated with Gonzalez-Cavazos on the same day. The jury last week also heard that Maya was a follower of the Santeria religion. The jury saw photos of Maya’s residence in Mission, Texas, which depicted numerous images of what was considered to be altars showing glasses of alcohol, knives, a machete, kettles, feathers and substances that appeared to be blood. Testimony also included descriptions of two rituals involving the sacrifice of animals. In December 2012, Maya had a Santeria priest, known as a “Padrino,” perform rituals with the organization to “bless” a 1,000 pound marijuana load that was destined for Houston. After meeting with the Padrino, Maya, Gonzalez-Cavazos and Juarez decided the marijuana load should remain in the Rio Grande Valley. The next day, a second ritual, attended by all five defendants, was performed and the 1,000 pounds of marijuana was to be transported to Houston. However, the marijuana was stolen from the group by unknown individuals that evening. After the theft and subsequent IED detonation, law enforcement was able to piece together the events and conspirators involved in this drug trafficking organization.  The case was investigated by the Drug Enforcement Administration, FBI, Homeland Security Investigations, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and the Brownsville Police Department. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Angel Castro and Jody Young.|YES
JAN 08 (HOUSTON) - Javier F. Peña, Special Agent in Charge of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Houston Division and Kenneth Magidson, United States Attorney, Southern District of Texas announced Oscar Nava-Valencia, 42, of Guadalajara, Mexico, has received a 25-year sentence for his role in the smuggling of a 3,100 kilogram load of cocaine from Panama. Nava-Valencia previously pleaded guilty and was sentenced late yesterday afternoon in federal court in Houston. U.S. District Judge Ewing Werlein Jr. sentenced Nava-Valencia to a term of 300 months in federal prison and further ordered him to pay a $5,000 fine. In March 2006, Panamanian authorities seized approximately 2,080 kilograms of cocaine from a warehouse in Panama City, Panama. The seized cocaine was part of a larger load totaling approximately 3,100 kilograms which was to be shipped from Panama to Mexico and eventually destined for the United States. Nava-Valencia, along with other associates, was to take possession of approximately 1,250 kilograms of cocaine once it arrived in Mexico. In January of 2010, Nava-Valencia was apprehended by Mexican authorities and extradited to the United States in January 2011. He has been and will remain in custody pending transfer to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons facility to be determined in the near future. The investigation leading to the charges was conducted by the Drug Enforcement Administration. Assistant United States Attorneys James Sturgis prosecuted the case.|YES
JAN 21 (MONTGOMERY, Ala.) – The Drug Enforcement Administration awarded Assistant U. S. Attorneys Verne Speirs and Gray Borden the Spartan Award, announced George L. Beck, Jr., United States Attorney Middle District of Alabama.  The Spartan award recognizes prosecutors for their dedication and extraordinary effort to investigate and prosecute large-scale drug dealers and money launderers. This year’s award is presented to Assistant U.S. Attorneys Speirs and Borden because of long hours invested and success obtained in combating the ever-growing scourge of drug dealing in the Middle District of Alabama.  DEA chose Speirs and Borden for this award after examining the work of all federal prosecutors in the State of Alabama. “The DEA in Alabama was pleased to present the 2013 Spartan Award for Excellence in Drug Investigations to AUSA’s Speirs and Borden,” stated Clay Morris, Assistant Special Agent in Charge of DEA in Alabama.  “The award was named after the Spartan Warrior Society.  AUSA’s Speirs and Borden were selected by DEA management to receive the award because they exhibited many traits of a Spartan Warrior: a relentless pursuit of justice, tenacity, loyalty and dedication.  Throughout 2013, AUSA’s Speirs and Borden tirelessly worked alongside our agents and task force officers in many long term complex investigations.  Because of the dedication of AUSA’s Speirs and Borden, many drug trafficking organizations were completely dismantled and dangerous criminals were removed from the streets of our communities.  I cannot say enough about the outstanding efforts of AUSA’s Speirs and Borden and the entire staff of the Unites States Attorney’s Office.  One thing is certain, as long as AUSA’s Speirs and Borden are prosecuting drug trafficking organizations, those who target and sell poison to our children should be very afraid.” “I am very pleased that the extraordinary success of AUSAs Speirs and Borden are receiving the recognition they truly deserve,” stated U.S. Attorney George Beck, “They have worked tirelessly to prosecute these criminals.  I believe it is essential that these types of crimes be vigorously prosecuted and that we continue to combat the drug problem facing this district and this nation.” “I am truly humbled to receive this award, but the real credit goes to the DEA Agents and Task Force Officers who risk everything to combat drug traffickers across this country,” stated Verne Speirs, Assistant U.S. Attorney.  “The safety of our families and communities depend upon their selfless service.” “I consider this award to be one of the great achievements in my career in the U.S. Attorney’s Office, but the credit goes to our dedicated and professional staff and the DEA’s stable of tireless agents,” stated Gray Borden, Assistant U.S. Attorney.  “I am proud to be associated with a team of this caliber.”|NO
JAN 30 (SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico) – Yesterday, January 29, U.S. Magistrate Judge Marcos E. López authorized a complaint charging: Joselito Taveras, Miguel Jimenez, and Alberto Dominguez with conspiracy to possess and possession with intent to distribute controlled substances, and conspiracy to import and importation of controlled substances, announced Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez, United States Attorney for the District of Puerto Rico.  The crew of the Coast Guard Cutter Farallon offloaded 136 kilograms (300 pounds) of cocaine Monday night, 60 nautical miles northwest of Aguadilla, Puerto Rico and transferred the custody of the defendants to Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) special agents and Customs and Border Protection officers Wednesday at Coast Guard San Juan, Puerto Rico. The interdiction was a result of U.S. Coast Guard, Customs Border Protection, Drug Enforcement Administration and Dominican Republic Navy coordinated efforts in support of Operation Unified Resolve, Operation Caribbean Guard, and the Caribbean Corridor Strike Force (CCSF), to interdict the illegal drug shipment consisting of nine bales of cocaine with an estimated street value of approximately $3.5 million dollars.|YES
JAN 10 (WASHINGTON) – The U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Department of Commerce's National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) today announced appointments to a newly created National Commission on Forensic Science. Members of the commission will work to improve the practice of forensic science by developing guidance concerning the intersections between forensic science and the criminal justice system.  The commission also will work to develop policy recommendations for the U.S. Attorney General, including uniform codes for professional responsibility and requirements for formal training and certification. The commission is co-chaired by Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole and Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology and NIST Director Patrick D. Gallagher.  Nelson Santos, Deputy Assistant Administrator for the Office of Forensic Sciences at the Drug Enforcement Administration, and John M. Butler, Special Assistant to the NIST director for forensic science, serve as vice-chairs. "I appreciate the commitment each of the commissioners has made and look forward to working with them to strengthen the validity and reliability of the forensic sciences and enhance quality assurance and quality control," said Deputy Attorney General Cole.  "Scientifically valid and accurate forensic analysis supports all aspects of our justice system."|NO
